docs(studios): add S3 versioning guidance for checkpoint storage costs (#1447)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/studios/managing.md

Checkpoints vary in size depending on libraries installed in your session environment. This can potentially result in many large files stored in the compute environment's pipeline work directory and saved to cloud storage. This storage will incur costs based on the cloud provider. Due to the architecture of Studios, you cannot delete any checkpoint files to save on storage costs. Deleting a Studio session's checkpoints will result in a corrupted Studio session that cannot be started nor recovered.
:::

> ### S3 versioning and checkpoint storage costs

Reviewer: This is a generic problem across any cloud provider that supports object versioning, which is all of them. Don't limit to just S3

> If your compute environment work directory uses an S3 bucket with **versioning enabled**, checkpoint writes create a new S3 object version every five minutes rather than overwriting the previous one. For an active Studio session, this produces up to 96 new object versions per day per session. Over time, these non-current versions accumulate and can significantly increase storage costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your compute environment work directory uses an object storage bucket with **versioning enabled**, checkpoint writes create a new object version rather than overwriting the previous one. For an active Studio session, this produces many object versions per session. Over time, these non-current versions accumulate and can significantly increase storage costs.
```

:::warning

> Only the latest version of each checkpoint file is read by Platform. However, non-current S3 object versions are not automatically removed and will continue to accrue storage costs until explicitly deleted or expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the latest version of each checkpoint file is read by Platform. However, non-current object versions are not automatically removed and will continue to accrue storage costs until explicitly deleted or expired.
```

:::

> **Recommended mitigation:** Apply an S3 Lifecycle rule to expire non-current object versions on the `.studios/checkpoints/` prefix. A one-day expiry retains the current version while removing intermediate five-minute writes. You can also delete existing accumulated non-current versions manually using your cloud provider's console or CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Recommended mitigation:** Apply lifecycle rules to expire non-current object versions on the `.studios/checkpoints/` prefix. A one-day expiry retains the current version while removing intermediate five-minute writes. You can also delete existing accumulated non-current versions manually using your cloud provider's console or CLI.
```

:::note

> Non-current object versions (intermediate checkpoint writes) are safe to delete. Do **not** delete the current (latest) version of any checkpoint file or the checkpoint directory itself — doing so will corrupt the Studio session and it cannot be recovered.

Reviewer: Won't this impact the "Start as new" functionality?

Author: good catch to flag, but my understanding is that it shouldn't impact "Start as new". The non-current object versions at a given path are only the intermediate 5-minute writes that accumulated during that session's active lifetime and not distinct checkpoint states. "Start as new" copies the path reference of a finalized checkpoint to the new Studio and reads the current (latest) version of the files at that path, so expiring non-current versions on the `.studios/checkpoints/` prefix is safe. Pinging @georgi-seqera to confirm!

Reviewer 2: @ejseqera Yes, you are correct. Studios weren't designed with Object storage versioning in mind, so any previous versions in object storage are essentially irrelevant to the studio functionality and can be deleted.

What a "checkpoint" is in practice is a `data.img` file created with SquashFS in object storage - it is periodically overwritten with the latest state, exactly because we just case about the latest state.
